all right welcome to cooking with Steve
today we're going to be making some beer
battered fish and chips Old English pub
style and we're going to show you how to
do that at home with a little bit of
effort and deep fryer but trust me
you're gonna love this
all right now the first thing you need
is fish I happen to be using halibut you
could use cod haddock is also nice or
if you have to be thrifty but
this is where we start you're gonna chop
it into fillet sized pieces done and
these are healthy portions of fish
better than you probably ever get from a
fish and chip place but that's why you
make them at home because they're better
so it's maybe better naked I mean beer
you can use pretty much any beer the
only reason for the beer is to get a
little bit of flavor in and also that's
gonna give you the bubbles in the better
better better so you're gonna dick bowl
dump in our beer I got this is a dark
beer I just grabbed it on the single
cans from the store and in she goes
all right the first thing I do is I dump
in about a half teaspoon of salt and
that really foams up the beer
okay now there's no real science to
adding the flour you're basically gonna
add it until it looks like the
consistency of pancake batter and if
you've never made pancakes I can't help
you here but this is what it looks like
you can leave streaks in the batter and
then you have to crank your deep fryer
right to 375 to cook the fish in now
well your oil warms up in deep fryer
you're gonna add your last secret
ingredient to solid British tablespoons
heaping of cornstarch and that's gonna
give you the crunch that you're probably
gonna want
now you have fish and you're gonna need
a bowl of flour to flour them up in then
you have your bowl of batter now if
you're like me and you're messy between
the bowl of batter and the deep fryer a
parchment paper or wax paper or aluminum
foil or whatever makes easy cleanup and
a deep fryer set to full blast over 375
and now we begin I'm gonna grab your
piece of halibut your Cod or haddock or
whatever you choose and you dump that in
the flour get her nice and coated
because that's gonna let the batter
stick to it you throw it in the batter
if you're smarter than me you're
probably using tongs at this point but
once it's coated it goes into the deep
fryer and that's where it sits for about
five minutes depending on your cut of
fish but you're gonna have a great piece
of fish when that comes out and you'll
know generally by the looks of it when
it's done and as the batter forms a
crust of coating just give it a little
bit of a shake and then will stop it
from sticking to the prongs below and
that's how she goes yeah use a few songs
cuz it'll save on washing up and we've
finished cooking our beer battered style
English pub style fish and it's ready
for serving that's what that thing means
but yep that's how it goes
end up with something delicious looking
like this and this is halibut this is
good and this is a crunchy batter and I
can
no very crunchy batter it's not too
thick not too thin and that's what you
end up with at the end of this so try
this and the fry recipe and also at the
tartar sauce recipe because we're
enjoying them all together tonight
thanks for watching putting the Steve
this is what you are cooking